Added info about implicit conversions and static_cast (#1015)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/data-types/data-types.md

---
Title: 'Data Types'

> Description: 'C++ supports many **data types** that represent the size and kind of values being stored in memory. You can write perfectly good programs using only five of those.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'C++ supports many data type that represent the size and kind of values being stored in memory.'
```

No need for emphasis in the metadata. Also, let's stick with a neutral, manual voice instead of a "you" or "we" voice.

> C++ provides a rather large number of types. However, you can write perfectly good programs using only five of those:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
C++ supports many **data types** that represent the size and kind of values being stored in memory.
```

## Memory Size

> As noted above, the data type of a variable also specifies the size of the information that it can hold:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The size of a given data type is measured in bytes:
```

| Data Type     | Memory Size |
| ------------- | ----------- |
| `bool`        | 1 byte      |
| `char`        | 1 byte      |
| `int`         | 4 bytes     |
| `float`       | 4 bytes     |
| `double`      | 8 bytes     |
| `std::string` | 24 bytes    |

> ## int

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Integers
```

For the most part, we prefer the headers be in "Title Case." What about a pluralization of the data type for a section? (e.g., "Integers")

> `int` is a type for storing integer (whole) numbers. An integer typically requires 4 bytes of memory space and ranges from -2<sup>31</sup> to 2<sup>31</sup>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`int` is a type for storing integer (whole) numbers. An integer usually requires 4 bytes of memory space and ranges from -2<sup>31</sup> to 2<sup>31</sup>.
```

```cpp
int year = 1991;
int age = 28;
```

> ## double

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Doubles
```

> `double` is a type for storing floating point (decimal) numbers. Double variables typically require 8 bytes of memory space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `double` type stores floating point (decimal) numbers. These variables usually require 8 bytes of memory space.
```

double pi = 3.14159;
```

> ## bool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Booleans
```

> `bool` is a type for storing true or false boolean values. Booleans typically require 1 byte of memory space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `bool` type stores boolean values of `true` or `false`. These values usually require 1 byte of memory space.
```

bool late_to_work = false;
```

> ## char

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Characters
```

> `char` is a type for storing individual characters. Characters are wrapped in single quotes '. Characters typically require 1 byte of memory space and range from -128 to 127.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `char` type stores individual characters, wrapped in single quotes `'`. Characters usually require 1 byte of memory space and range from -128 to 127.
```

char punctuation = '?';
```

> ## string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Strings
```

> [std::string](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/strings) is a type for storing text strings. Strings are wrapped in double quotes: `"Hello World!"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Strings](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/strings) are character sequences wrapped in double quotes (e.g., `"Hello World!"`).
The `std::string` type is used for storing text strings. 
```

```cpp

> std::string message = "good nite";

Reviewer: On the next line, # 75, let's change `@sonnynomnom` to `@codeninja`.

- `short`
- `long`

> ## const

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Constants
```

> `const` (constant) variables cannot be changed by the program during execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constant variables cannot be changed by the program during execution. The `const` keyword can be added before the data type to make the variable immutable:
```

```cpp
const double quarter = 0.25;

// and now variable quarter can only be 0.25
```

> Simply add the keyword `const` before the data type to make the variable immutable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```cpp
double weight1;
int weight2;
int weight3;

weight1 = 154.49;
weight2 = (int) weight1;
weight3 = weight1; // Implicit conversion

// weight2 is now 154
// weight3 is also 154 due to the compiler perfoming an implicit conversion
```

> **Note:** Going from a double to an int simply removes the decimal. There’s no rounding involved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Going from a double to an int simply removes the decimal. There’s no rounding involved.

```

Alternatively, you can use a safer version of casting in C++ called `static_cast`. 

> `static_cast` is performed at compile time, offering better debugging and safer code. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`static_cast` is performed at compile time, offering better debugging and safer code.
 
```

```cpp
double weight1 = 122.59;
int weight2 = static_cast<int>(weight1);
std::cout << weight2 << std::endl;
// 122
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The following example shows how `static_cast` can catch a type conversion error at compile time:

```

int weight2;

weight1 = 154.49;
// assigned a double value
weight2 = (int) weight1;
// weight2 is now 154 due to explicit type conversion
int weight3 = weight1;
// weight3 is also 154 due to implicit conversion by the compiler
```

> **Note:** Going from a double to an int simply removes the decimal. There’s no rounding involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Going from a double to an int simply removes the decimal. There’s no rounding involved.
```

Alternatively, there is a safer version of casting in C++ called `static_cast` that can be used. Performed at compile time, `static_cast` offers better debugging and safer code:

```cpp
double weight1 = 122.03;
int weight2 = static_cast<int>(weight1);
std::cout << weight2 << std::endl;

> // 122

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Output: 122
```

```

> **Note:** Not all types can be converted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Not all types can be converted:
```

```cpp
std::string s = static_cast<std::string>(weight2);
```

> > note: no known conversion for argument 1 from ‘int’ to ‘std::__cxx11::basic_string<char>&&’

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be a `> note:` or an error message? If the latter, can we made an edit like this:

```suggestion
This throws the following error:

```

And then attach a \```shell snippet with the error:

```shell
no known conversion for argument 1 from ‘int’ to ‘std::__cxx11::basic_string<char>&&’
````
